ACD-502 (#26)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: DataHub/UserInterface/02d_ETL.md

# ETL

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ETL*

![Attribute set mappings](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/ETL/AttributeSetMappings.png "[Attribute set mappings]")

**Attribute set mappings**

- ![Search](../../Assets/Icons/Search.png "[Search]") (Search)   

>   Click this button to display the search bar and search for an attribute set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click this button to display the search bar and search for an attribute set mapping.
```
Ich weiß, man sucht eigentlich nach einem Set, aber finde ich logischer hier, da der List so heißt.

[comment]: <> (Wonach kann ich suchen? Source und Destination Attribute set?)

- ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh)   
  Click this button to update the list of attribute set mappings.

- ![Columns](../../Assets/Icons/Columns.png "[Columns]") Columns (x)   
  Click this button to display the columns bar and customize the displayed columns and the order of columns in the list. The *x* indicates the number of columns that are currently displayed in the list.

- [x]     
  Select a checkbox to display the editing toolbar. You cannot select multiple checkboxes at once.

- ![Edit](../../Assets/Icons/Edit01.png "[Edit]") (Edit)   
  Click this button to edit the selected attribute set mapping. This button is only displayed if the checkbox of an attribute set mapping is selected. Alternatively, you can click directly a row in the list to edit an attribute set mapping.

>   For detailed information, see [Edit an attribute set mapping](../Operation/01_ManageETLMappings.md#edit-an-etl-attribute-set-mapping).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For detailed information, see [Edit an ETL attribute set mapping](../Operation/01_ManageETLMappings.md#edit-an-etl-attribute-set-mapping).
```
Ankertext unbedingt genauso gleich wie Link, also wie Ziel-Unterkapitel? Ich denke, es wäre besser, um Verwirrung vom User zu vermeiden.

  Name of the attribute set to which the mapping is run.

- *Language*   
  Language from which the value of a multi-language attribute is taken when mapping it to a single language attribute.

- *Channel*   
  Channel from which the value of a multi-channel attribute is taken when mapping it to a single channel attribute.

- *ID*   
  Attribute set identification number. The ID number is automatically assigned by the system.

- *Modified on*   
  Date and time of the last modification.

- *Modified by*   
  Name and username of the user who modified the attribute set mapping.

- *Created on*   
  Date and time of the creation.

- *Created by*   
  Name and username of the user who created the attribute set mapping.

- ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add)   
  Click this button to create an attribute set mapping. The *Create ETL attribute set mapping* window is displayed.   

## Create ETL attribute set mapping

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ETL > Button Add*

![Create ETL attribute set mapping](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/ETL/CreateETLAttributeSetMapping.png "[Create ETL attribute set mapping]")

- *Source attribute set*   

>   Click the drop-down list and select the appropriate source attribute set for the mapping. All attribute sets are displayed in the drop-down list. Use the search bar in the drop-down list to search for an attribute set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click the drop-down list and select the appropriate source attribute set for the mapping. All available attribute sets are displayed in the drop-down list. Use the search bar in the drop-down list to search for an attribute set.
```

[comment]: <> (Die Search bar funktioniert nicht richtig. Ich springe einfach in die Liste und raus aus der Suche...)

- *Destination attribute set*   

>   Click the drop-down list and select the appropriate destination attribute set for the mapping. All attribute sets are displayed in the drop-down list. Use the search bar in the drop-down list to search for an attribute set. The *Copy ETL attribute set mapping* drop-down list is unlocked if any attribute set mapping with the selected destination attribute set already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click the drop-down list and select the appropriate destination attribute set for the mapping. All available attribute sets are displayed in the drop-down list. Use the search bar in the drop-down list to search for an attribute set. The *Copy ETL attribute set mapping* drop-down list is unlocked if any attribute set mapping with the selected destination attribute set already exists.
```

- *Language*   
  Click the drop-down list and select the language from which the value of a multi-language attribute will be taken when mapping it to a single language attribute. All available languages are displayed in the drop-down list.

- *Channel*   
  Click the drop-down list and select the channel from which the value of a multi-channel attribute will be taken when mapping it to a single channel attribute. All available channels are displayed in the drop-down list.

- *Copy ETL attribute set mapping*   

>   Click the drop-down list and select the an ETL attribute set mapping to apply all matching attribute mappings to the new ETL attribute set mapping. All attribute set mappings whose destination attribute set matches or has inheritance relations to the selected destination attribute set are displayed in the drop-down list. If no attribute set mapping is selected, no attribute mappings are copied from another mapping. The drop-down list is locked if no attribute set mapping with the selected destination attribute set already exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click the drop-down list and select an ETL attribute set mapping to apply all matching attribute mappings to the new ETL attribute set mapping. All attribute set mappings whose destination attribute set matches or has inheritance relations to the selected destination attribute set are displayed in the drop-down list. If no attribute set mapping is selected, no attribute mappings are copied from another mapping. The drop-down list is locked if no attribute set mapping with the selected destination attribute set already exists.
```

- [CANCEL]   
  Click this button to cancel creating an attribute set mapping. The *Create ETL attribute set mapping* window is closed.

- [SAVE]   
  Click this button to save the new attribute set mapping. The *Create ETL attribute set mapping* window is closed.

## Mapping

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ETL > Select attribute set mapping*

![Mapping](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/ETL/Mapping.png "[Mapping]")

- ![Back](../../Assets/Icons/Back02.png "[Back]") (Back)   

>   Click this button to close the *Mapping from source set to destination set* view and return to the list of attribute set mappings. All changes are rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click this button to close the *Mapping from "Source set" to "Destination set"* view and return to the list of attribute set mappings. All changes are rejected.
```
Alternativ: Mapping from "Source set name" to "Destination set name"? Zu lang?

- [RERUN MAPPINGS]   
  Click this button to rerun all attribute mappings within the attribute set mapping. The *Rerun all mappings* window is displayed. For detailed information, see [Rerun an attribute set mapping](../Operation/01_ManageETLMappings.md#rerun-an-attribute-set-mapping)

> **Mapping from source set to destination set**

Reviewer: s.o.

[comment]: <> (Wonach kann ich suchen? Source und Destination Attribute)

- ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh)   
  Click this button to update the list of attribute mappings.

- ![Columns](../../Assets/Icons/Columns.png "[Columns]") Columns (x)   
  Click this button to display the columns bar and customize the displayed columns and the order of columns in the list. The *x* indicates the number of columns that are currently displayed in the list.

- ![Filter](../../Assets/Icons/Filter.png "[Filter]") Filter (x)   
  Click this button to display the filter bar and customize the active filters. The *x* indicates the number of filters that are currently active.

- [x]     
  Select a checkbox to display the editing toolbar. You cannot select multiple checkboxes at once.

- ![Edit](../../Assets/Icons/Edit01.png "[Edit]") (Edit)   
  Click this button to edit the mapping to the selected destination attribute. This button is only displayed if the checkbox of a mapping is selected. Alternatively, you can click directly a row in the list to edit the mapping to a destination attribute.

>   For detailed information, see [Edit an attribute mapping](../Operation/01_ManageETLMappings.md#edit-the-etl-attribute-mappings).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For detailed information, see [Edit the ETL attribute mappings](../Operation/01_ManageETLMappings.md#edit-the-etl-attribute-mappings).
```
Ankertext unbedingt genauso gleich wie Link, also wie Ziel-Unterkapitel? Ich denke, es wäre besser, um Verwirrung vom User zu vermeiden.

- [CUSTOM DESTINATION ATTRIBUTE CHANNEL AND LANGUAGE]    
  Click this button to define a custom channel and/or language attribute mapping for the selected destination attribute. The *Settings* section is displayed on the right side of the *Mapping from source set to destination set* view with a drop-down list for the language and/or channel. The button is only displayed if the destination attribute of the selected mapping is multi-language or multi-channel.   
  For detailed information, see [Add a custom mapping for a destination attribute](../Operation/01_ManageAttributes.md#add-a-custom-mapping-for-a-destination-attribute)

The list displays all attribute mappings. Depending on the settings, the displayed columns may vary. All fields are read-only.

- *Source attribute*   
  Name of the source attribute which is mapped to the destination attribute. The source attribute is only displayed if a mapping to the destination attribute exists.

- *Extension*   
  Selected extension for the mapping. The extension is only displayed if a mapping exists.

> - *Destination attribute set*   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Destination attribute*   
```

  Name of the destination attribute to which the source attribute is mapped.

- *ID*   
  Attribute mapping identification number. The ID number is automatically assigned by the system.

### Settings

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ETL > Select attribute set mapping > Select attribute mapping > Button Edit*

![Mapping settings](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/ETL/MappingSettings.png "[Mapping settings]")

> The *Settings* section on the right side of the *Mapping from source set to destination set* view is only displayed if editing an attribute mapping.   

Reviewer: s.o. ("Source set name")

> Depending on the selected row in the mappings list, the fields displayed in the *Settings* section differ:   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the selected row in the mapping list, the fields displayed in the *Settings* section differ:   
```

> Depending on the selected row in the mappings list, the fields displayed in the *Settings* section differ:   

Reviewer: mappings list oder mapping list?

- [SAVE]   
  Click this button to save any changes to the attribute mapping. The *Settings* section is hidden.

- Destination attribute   
  The selected destination attribute is displayed in the arrow box on the right side. This field is read-only.

- *Extension*   
  Click the drop-down list and select the appropriate ETL extension for the attribute mapping. The displayed extensions depend on the data type of the selected destination attribute.    
  For detailed information about the ETL extensions and the different data types, see [ETL extensions list](./03_ETLExtensions.md) or [Data type list](./04_DataTypeList.md).

- *Override change tracking mode*   
  Click the drop-down list and select the change tracking mode of the mapping. By default, the **Use default** option is selected. The following modes are available:
  - **Use default**   
    The mapping configured in the dependency of the specific entities is applied.
  - **Automatic**   
    The initial mapping is automatically applied. All value changes or reruns are applied automatically in the mapping.  
  - **Semi-automatic**   

>     The initial mapping is automatically applied. Values changes or reruns are applied after confirmation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The initial mapping is automatically applied. Value changes or reruns are applied after confirmation.
```

  - **Semi-automatic, changes must be confirmed by another user**   

>     The initial mapping as well as values changes or reruns are applied after confirmation by another user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The initial mapping as well as value changes or reruns are applied after confirmation by another user.
```

  - **Manual**   
    The initial mapping is automatically applied. Afterwards, the changes in the mapping must be triggered manually to be applied.

- *Source attribute*   

>   Click the drop-down list within the arrow box and select the appropriate source attribute for the mapping. Depending on the selected ETL extension one or several *Source attribute* arrow boxes are displayed. The selection in the drop-down list depends on the selected ETL extension which defines the required data type of the source attribute(s).    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click the drop-down list within the arrow box and select the appropriate source attribute for the mapping. Depending on the selected ETL extension, one or several *Source attribute* arrow boxes are displayed. The selection in the drop-down list depends on the selected ETL extension which defines the required data type of the source attribute(s).    
```

  For detailed information about the ETL extensions and the different data types, see [ETL extensions list](./03_ETLExtensions.md) or [Data type list](./04_DataTypeList.md).  

**Configuration**

The *Configuration* section displays the additional configuration for the mapping. The configuration fields differ depending on the selected ETL extension.    
For detailed information about the different configurations of ETL extensions, see [ETL extensions list](./03_ETLExtensions.md).

### Rerun all mappings

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ETL > Select attribute set mapping > Button RERUN MAPPINGS*

![Rerun all mappings](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/ETL/RerunAllMappings.png "[Rerun all mappings]")

- ![Toggle](../../Assets/Icons/Toggle.png "[Toggle]") *Also rerun mappings for entities with manual change tracking?*   

>   Enable this toggle to rerun all attribute mappings regardless their change tracking mode. Disable the toggle to rerun the mapping excluding all mappings with a manual change tracking mode. By default, this toggle is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Enable this toggle to rerun all attribute mappings regardless of their change tracking mode. Disable the toggle to rerun the mapping excluding all mappings with a manual change tracking mode. By default, this toggle is disabled.
```

- [CANCEL]   
  Click this button to cancel the rerun of all mappings. The *Rerun all mappings* window is closed.

- [SAVE]   

>   Click this button to rerun all attribute mappings within the attribute set. The *Rerun all mappings* window is closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click this button to save all attribute mappings within the attribute set. The *Rerun all mappings* window is closed.
```
???

### Rerun single mapping

*DataHub > Settings > Tab ETL > Select attribute set mapping > Select attribute mapping > Button RERUN SELECTED MAPPING*

![Rerun sinlge mapping](../../Assets/Screenshots/DataHub/Settings/ETL/RerunSingleMapping.png "[Rerun single mapping]")

- ![Toggle](../../Assets/Icons/Toggle.png "[Toggle]") *Also rerun mapping for entities with manual change tracking (or if the change-tracking override of this mapping is manual)?*   

>   Enable this toggle to rerun the attribute mapping regardless its change tracking mode. Disable the toggle to rerun the mapping only if the manual change tracking mode is not assigned to this mapping. By default, this toggle is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Enable this toggle to rerun the attribute mapping regardless of its change tracking mode. Disable the toggle to rerun the mapping only if the manual change tracking mode is not assigned to this mapping. By default, this toggle is disabled.
```

- [CANCEL]   
  Click this button to cancel the rerun of all mappings. The *Rerun single mapping* window is closed.

- [SAVE]   

>   Click this button to rerun all attribute mappings within the attribute set. The *Rerun single mapping* window is closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click this button to rerun only the selected attribute mapping within the attribute set. The *Rerun single mapping* window is closed.
```
